---
layout: post
title:  "Cataclysmic Variables observed during K2 campaigns 0 and 1"
date:   2016-03-12
categories: publication
---

#### **Authors:** Z Dai, P Szkody, P M Garnavich, M Kennedy
**Publication:** The Astronomical Journal, 2016, 152, 5

**Abstract:**
There are 15 cataclysmic variables (CVs) observed in the first two campaigns of the K2 mission. In this paper, the eight CVs showing distinct features are analyzed in detail. Among these eight, modulations during quiescence are evident at the known orbital periods in the SU UMa stars QZ Vir and RZ Leo, and at our newly determined orbital periods of 1RXS J0632+2536 and WD 1144+011. The periodogram analysis for the quiescent light curve of QZ Vir reveals multi-period modulations and the coexistence of orbital and superhump periods. The phased orbital light curves for the other 3 CVs in quiescence display wide (about half cycle) and shallow (less than 0.5 mag) eclipse features. Besides these modulations, their quiescent light curves reveal several transient events: a sudden decrease of system light in 1RXS J0632+2536, a low level flare-like event in QZ Vir, a short brightening event in RZ Leo and a temporary disappearance of the orbital modulation in WD 1144+011. The two known dwarf novae UV Gem and TW Vir and the CVs USNO-B1.01144-00115322 and CSS130516:111236.7+002807 show outbursts, including 1 complete and 3 incomplete normal outbursts and 2 complete superoutbursts. An incomplete but typical normal outburst confirms the dwarf nova identification of the USNO-B1.01144-00115322. The one complete normal outburst in UV Gem possibly provides the orbital period, since its modulations are shorter than the previously observed superhump period. The superoutbursts of TW Vir and CSS130516:111236.7+002807, along with their corresponding superhump periods, indicate that both objects are SU UMa stars. The derived superhump period of CSS130516:111236.7+002807 is 1.44 hr, implying that this new SU UMa star is close to the period minimum.

**[ArXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.03859)**

**[Journal Version](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/0004-6256/152/1/5)**
