---
layout: post
title:  "XMM-Newton Observations of the Peculiar Cataclysmic Variable Lanning 386: X-ray evidence for a Magnetic Primary"
date:   2016-12-15
categories: publication
---

#### **Authors:** Mark R. Kennedy, Paul Callanan, Peter M. Garnavich, Michael Fausnaugh, Joel C. Zinn
**Publication:** Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 2017, 466, 2202

**Abstract:**
We present the first X-ray observations of the eclipsing cataclysmic variables Lanning 386 and MASTER OTJ192328.22+612413.5, possible SW Sextantis systems. The X-ray light curve of Lanning 386 shows deep eclipses, similar to the eclipses seen in the optical light curve, confirming the high inclination of the system. There is evidence of a periodicity between 17-22 min in the X-ray and optical light curves of Lanning 386, which is associated with quasi-periodic oscillations. This system also displays a hard X-ray spectrum which is well fit by a partially covered, absorbed 2 temperature plasma. The cool plasma temperature (0.24(+0.17 −0.08) keV) and hot plasma temperature (9(+4 −2) keV) are not atypical plasma temperatures of known intermediate polar systems. Based on this model, we suggest that Lanning 386 is an intermediate polar with a high accretion rate. The hot plasma temperature limits the white dwarf mass to >0.5 M⊙. From the optical spectrum obtained using the Large Binocular Telescope, we find that the secondary in the system is consistent with an M5V star, and refine the distance to Lanning 386 to be 160±50 pc. Finally, we use the high time resolution of the optical spectra to crudely constrain the magnetic moment of the white dwarf in Lanning 386. J1923 was not detected during the observations, but the upper limit on the flux is inline with J1923 and Lanning 386 being related.

**[ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04397)**

**[Journal Version](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article-abstract/466/2/2202/2712519/XMM-Newton-observations-of-the-peculiar)**
